# Capstone Assessment

> Julia Hoge
> 
> 09/12/2022

This capstone project is inspired by my interests in machine learning, app development, and saving money on entertainment. I gained experience with the mathematical concepts involved with machine learning over the course of my education. I have strong foundation in calculus, linear algebra, and probability concepts from taking the following courses (Calculus I [MATH 1061], Calculus II [MATH 1062], Linear Algebra [MATH 2076], Probability and Statistics [STAT 2037]). My interest in machine learning started in my Python programming class when I designed a stitch recognition program as my final project. I am currently pursuing a more in-depth dive into machine learning in the course [CS 5137]. I have experience and skill with object oriented programming and algorithms though my courses (Data Structures [CS 2028], Python Programming [CS 2021], Programming Languages [CS 3003], Design and Analysis of Algorithms [CS 4071], Database Design and Development [CS 4092], Software Engineering [CS 3093], Automata [CS 5170]). In addition, I have led group programming projects in the courses for data structures and software engineering. In data structures I implemented main functions, assigned tasks, and reviewed work for a BFS and DFS interactive graph program that used the command line. In software engineering, I designed and led the implementation of a mobile app for finding allergen alternatives using the Dart language and a FireBase database. As a student on a budget, the app for this capstone project would be something that I would personally use to prevent overspending on streaming services.

Over the course of my co-ops, I gained experience from working on various backend,  frontend, and full stack environments. I began developing my database, scripting, and debugging skills at my first co-op as a software developer at Flooid. I also became familiar with the concepts of Agile methodology and the software development lifecycle. Next, as a frontend development intern at The Normandy group, I gained experience designing UI elements in Adobe and implementing said elements using JavaScript for a data warehousing application. This role improved my leadership and time management skills as I worked to design, implement, and meet deadlines for the application. I was able to further my skills in front end development at my next co-op at RawVoice where I, as a full stack developer, implemented a newly designed dashboard for their podcast hosting solution. Finally, as a backend developer intern at IBM, I worked with a group of other interns to create a multithreaded program to test for thrashing of resources in a test environment that we designed. Throughout my work experiences, I have gained the technical skills to code my project, the organization skills to stay on track with my goals, the communication skills that I will need to work with my advisor and teammate, and the problem solving skills to be able to adapt to any changes.

As previously mentioned, I am personally motivated to create this app because I plan on using it. As a person with a budget, a busy schedule, and no system for tracking how I am using my entertainment subscriptions, I have found that I waste a lot of time trying to figure out what to watch next and worrying that I am not using my subscriptions efficiently. I am excited to work on a mobile application again like my software engineering project. I am always excited to learn how to use modern tools and I am looking forward to working with React Native as it is used in many major applications (Meta Apps, Microsoft Apps). In addition, I want to gain more experience working with a cloud-based backend since I am interested in cloud technologies and taking advantage of their scalability. Overall, I see a lot of potential for this project to be helpful in my continued education of full stack development and it can be helpful as a tool in my personal life.

For the design and development for this capstone project, I want to focus on a few key areas: APIs and algorithms, architecture, and user experience. Since the application will need data from multiple sources, I anticipate incorporating a variety of APIs including, but not limited to, using APIs for IMDB, Hulu, AMC, Netflix, Amazon Prime, Disney+, Paramount+, HBO Max, Showtime, and Peacock. From the APIs, I will need to collect, parse, display, and prioritize data relevant to the user and the user’s potential interests. I will need to develop a machine learning algorithm for learning based on user input and one for making associated inferences about a user’s interests based on similar users. With all the data required for this app, I will need an organized, robust, and testable system for sorting, locating, storing, and applying logic to user data. I plan on using SOLID and DRY concepts to implement the architecture for this project. Finally, I would like this app to have an aesthetic and user friendly look and feel. I’m thinking of a prioritized list as the main component as well as a search bar to add, update, and rate your shows and movies. There also needs to be a cost analysis section for statistics on what services you use the most as well as a section to discover new shows based on your interests and the interests of others. By the end of this project, I expect to have a fully functional app that has all of the above listed features and can scale for as many users as needed.
	
It can also be very expensive to pay for multiple streaming services only to end up not utilizing all of them. With this capstone project, I want to design, develop, and test a mobile app that can help users track, rate, and find new media so that they can make the best use of their subscriptions. Throughout the development process, I want to get feedback from potential users. I will create multiple forms that query potential users on whether or not they would use the app, what features they would like, and whether the UI concepts look solid. Near the end of the project, I will send a final form as well as a link to the app for university students to test out. I will measure how my app has met the following goals: intuitive to use, fun to use, helpful, saves user money. I will be satisfied with my results if the majority of users agree that the app met at least three of these goals. By working through the design, development, and testing phases of the creation of this app, I also want to gain a better understanding of the fundamentals of full stack development and product development. I hope to report my findings on what aspects of product development are the most time consuming and most difficult. My report will also include how my communication styles evolved over the course of the project and how my organization methods have shifted or changed. Ultimately, I would like to be able to draw parallels between my experience on this project and my future experiences as a software engineer once I have graduated.
