# Capstone Assessment

> Sidath Marapane
> 
> 09/12/2022

From my perspective, our senior design project is not only a terrific idea for an app, but also the best way to learn about and get experience in mobile app development and machine learning. It has the perfect balance – while I do have experience in full stack development and machine learning, it is not at the level that would be required to complete this project. I have enough knowledge to not be lost in the development of the app but I will also learn a ton once the project is complete. Having a meaningful project that I can be passionate about is also a big factor; I will be more mentally involved in creating a product that friends and family (myself included) can use effectively. The project management aspect of our capstone will also provide important experience, as I have not worked on a project this large before. Ultimately, this project will prove to have one of the largest impacts on my professional development.

Throughout college, I have taken many courses as well as completed many projects that have been instrumental in my development as a software engineer. Having already come into college with computer science experience, Data Structures (CS2028C) and D&A Of Algorithms (CS4071) were very helpful in filling in the gaps I had. Having at that point confirmed my interest in the field, it was a personal project that spurred my interest in machine learning and application development. In my project, I scraped cricket stats from the cricket league I played in and calculated projected performances and presented them in a web application using several Python libraries (sci-kitlearn, pandas, flask). One year later, I would take my first artificial intelligence course, Artificial Intelligence (CS5133), in which I learned more about what exactly artificial intelligence can offer. At the moment, I am taking Intelligent Data Analysis (CS5152), Deep Learning (CS5173), and Machine Learning (CS5137); I have already learned a ton from those courses (libraries, algorithms, etc.) and they will be effective in supporting the development of the machine learning aspects of our project.

My co-op experiences have also guided me towards our capstone. My first co-op was with GE Digital – my main takeaway from this experience was the importance of communication. Not being afraid to reach out to ask questions and being able to communicate those questions, progress, and between different teams is very valuable and will be a skill I utilize in our project. My next two co-ops were with Fox Sports doing backend work on their website/mobile app as well as frontend work on their website. Having done small personal projects using the GroupMe API and Spotify API, I was quite comfortable working on their backend API. This experience will be helpful, considering the amount of APIs we plan to interact with. My frontend experience will also come in handy as it will give me a useful perspective on what is capable in frontend development. My final co-op was with FanDuel as a data engineering intern. Having experience in manipulating large amounts of data from APIs will also prove to be helpful in the development of our project.

There are a variety of reasons why I am excited to participate in this project. For one, it is practical – there have been countless times where I have struggled to find the best movie/TV show to watch because I cannot keep track of all the streaming services I have. This app will not only help me find shows/movies I am interested in, but it will also provide insight on whether or not I should continue to pay for certain services. I know plenty of people that would be also interested in our final product as well, who would be happy to complete surveys in order to assist our development. Another reason why I am motivated to work on this project is the actual work itself – I enjoy working with APIs and have attempted/wanted to create a mobile app for a long time. Having a project based around APIs and mobile app development is perfect; the icing on the cake is the fact that this is the best way to learn about machine learning, another field that I am interested in. Being able to learn about React Native at a deeper level is also something that I have been interested in for a while.

In designing a solution, it will be important to clearly define the requirements on a lower level – this will ensure that we do not get sidetracked by incorrectly interpreting our requirements. This will involve verifying that our APIs (external dependencies) will return the necessary data (IMDB, Hulu, AMC, Netflix, Amazon Prime, Disney+, Paramount+, HBO Max, Showtime, Peacock). We will also have to eventually figure out which model/algorithm to use for our app and investigate the capabilities of the API’s ‘recommendations’ endpoint (if they exist). Other important aspects of designing a solution involve determining the architecture of the app as well as designing a user friendly frontend. Ultimately, I expect to have a working app by the end of next semester which would have the ability to recommend a movie/show, keep track of upcoming releases, provide insights towards streaming services, and allow the users to update/rate their media interests. I will know when we are done once the app is able to provide those features through a seamless user interface – with input from other people, that is when I will truly know if I have done a good job.
